So I mentioned that there is a specific web component lifecycle which the browser follows when instantiating
our own custom element objects in the DOM so to say. The first thing that gets executed is the constructor
because this always gets executed when an object gets created
based on your class and then the classes constructor gets executed.
So this is essentially called when the element is created.
Now it's important to highlight here that the moment where the element is created is not the moment
where the element is then also attached into the real DOM by the browser,
instead it's created in memory first and it's not part of the DOM at the beginning.
So the constructor is great for some basic initializations, some basic values for the different properties
and variables you might be using in your class, in your component
but it's the wrong place for accessing the DOM because your custom element has not been added to the
DOM yet. For this,
there is another method you can add in your class which will be executed by the browser
once this element, once this custom component has been mounted onto the browser's DOM and that is the
connectedCallback method. This is called when your element has been attached to the DOM and therefore
this is the place for DOM initializations,
so where you can now start adding content or where you can start accessing the DOM.
There also is a disconnected callback method which will also be executed automatically for you
and this method will be called by the browser whenever your elements, so your custom element, your
web component, whenever that is detached from the DOM.
So when you destroy that node which you can do through Javascript for example and therefore, this is then
a great method for some cleanup work, like for example if you were sending an HTTP request, this would be where
you could cancel it.
There is another method,
the attributeChangedCallback and that will be important for listening to changes to attributes to
your own element,
it is something we haven't covered yet and therefore I will come back to this,
this will later become important for updating the data and the DOM of your web component when some attributes
which can be passed to your component changed.
But we haven't covered attributes on your own elements yet,
so let's ignore that and let's focus on the connectedCallback.